This talk will be at the deschutes teck guild (google it)

Im an organizer

Im giving a talk

I like a bit of humor, my talk will start like:

First I will begin with a little talk about sprites, the high up atmospheric phenomena, because not many people know about them and theyre kinda cool. Thats maybe 2-3min max?

Then I will begin with something like

"
In the beginning there were engineers, people building realtime, and multiplayer sevices. MMOs, media streams, and infastructure.

Optimistic state, authoritative server states, lag, catchup, disconects, server restarts, everything.

Now we have vibe coders is exposing their LLM provider keys on the frontend. Thinking that they built the next agentic expierence.

However we really want to be taken seriously, I mean we need to prop up this bubble with at least some fancy facade.

So while crawlers scrape your api keys, the least chatGPT can do is architect a nice chat.

The beautiful thing is that web can get you there fast, we standardized on AI web kits (AI Components, ShadCN, etc) incredibly quick. Problem is, that no amount of shimmer can account for: (insert a picture of a chat message failing to load).

So how do we give these water to hallucination machines a functional backend?

"

Then I will go into my into my intro

"

So before I walk through this my name is Aidan Hibbard, and Im a senior Engineer at Niche.

I've built realtime services at enterprise scale that need to be able to deliver reliably to tens of thousands of users a day.

"

Then I will go to

1. The HTTP call - you make a http call, you get a response. Fine for quick things such as having a mini model give you a project name based on a small user prompt.
2. HTTP with streaming back
3. HTTP / SSE with database backed messages, fetch on first land, using stream ids, and polling
4. HTTP / SSE with db backed, fetch on first land, stream ids, and reconnect over redis
5. HTTP / SSE with BullMQ worker holding AI SDK agent, db backed, fetch on first land, stream ids, and reconnect over redis